Let's get back to your father and if he did or didn't
have high school. I don't believe he did. I believe
that he's, I believe he dropped out of high school
in the eighth grade or something like that and
started working. My mother finished high school
and her younger sister was a school teacher. Her
first cousin was a school teacher. So they were,
and my mother attended Baylor University for one
year, I think. So the fascination with education
was a little more on my mother's side from an
experience standpoint than my father's, but my
father did respect it greatly and I guess was
insistent that his children go as far as they could
because he was denied the opportunity.
Why was he denied the opportunity? Because the
family was poor and he had to go to work? I believe
that's right and of course in those days it wasn't
considered to be very essential to finish high
school either. True. He was a highly intelligent
person. He could earn money with his bookkeeping
skills
and he just pretty well could teach himself or
learn by experience.
Now did the military aspect of A&M have anything to
do with your decision to come here? No.
It didn't. And you were influenced by the
agricultural aspect, in other words then You, who
became a general, never thought of a military
career in high school? No. Never thought about
going to service school like West Point or
anything like that? No. Okay. Not at all. Okay. You
arrived in 1935? Yes, fall of 1935. Oh, your first
impressions when you got off that train? Did you
come by the train? I did, yes. My brother and I made
our first trips together. by a train coming to
Texas A&M. I was mighty awestruck. Texas A&M had
quite a reputation for hazing freshmen at the
time. I was apprehensive
and that was a proper attitude because it was a
little traumatic. Can you describe some of the
hazing? In the first place, I guess it's a little
unusual that my brother and I didn't attempt to
live together. He was acquainted with somebody
that influenced him to get into the infantry here.
I was influenced by a person from, a couple of
people from from Orange County who were in the
artillery and consequently my brother and I never
lived together here. I got over into the F Battery
Field Artillery where there were two Orange
County people in leadership positions that I
replaced from the name of I.B. Murray and a person
named Nelson who was first sergeant of the
artillery battery that I joined.
We were of course strongly disciplined as
freshmen
and really Looked after day and night primarily by
the sophomores. We were of course room artillers
for upperclassmen.
So Abraham Lincoln didn't free all the slaves. We
did a little slave labor as freshmen at Texas A&M.
What kind of work? Shining shoes? Well we shined
boots and we swept rooms, made beds.
that sort of orderly type activities as freshmen.
Tell me about the hazing.
Well,
if you didn't follow the rules according to
somebody's desires, they did sometimes use a
board on you. Of course, there were strong
traditions about that, about what stance you'd
take and how you'd take that. It was ironical that
then, you know, when somebody gave you a licking
with the board, you were obliged to congratulate
him for his skill at applying to the board. It
didn't hurt anything. It's, of course, an
experience that one remembers always. I can't
advocate that at all, but still there's no
question in my mind that going through again some
sacrifices here made you appreciate a whole lot
more earning a degree under those circumstances
in Texas A&M. So you thought the hazing and the
traditions then were beneficial? Oh certainly, I
sure did. Were you sorry to see the hazing from the
university? No, not really. I think that that was a
sign of the times. In those days,
it probably was beneficial, but I expect that
the expectations of people changed along the way.
I don't regret at all that we have virtually
eliminated hazing, as far as I know absolutely
eliminated that type of hazing from Texas A&M.
That was a change that was necessary, desirable.
Can you describe your accommodations?
Well,
I was quartered in Goodwin Hall.
in my freshman year.
The room was, of course, very Spartan type, wooden
floors, not very good, bunk beds.
The enrollment at Texas A&M had just begun to
increase beyond dormitory capacity, so there
were, not my freshman year, the following years,
there were three in a room. We did stack the bunk
beds. Of course, a basin in the room, but the toilet
facilities were just one floor.
We marched the meals, every meal. Of course, the
freshmen were obliged to We'd get up at Reveille
and assemble together out on the steps of the
dormitory and sing the artillery song after the
bugle blew. A real live bugler.
It was distinctly an advantage that everybody
wore the uniform because of course My brother and I
didn't have any money, but we looked like
everybody else on campus and there were a whole
bunch of them like that too. My brother and I did
attempt to find student employment.
But there were some 4,000 students on campus our
freshman year, and only about 3,000 of them were
working student jobs. Oh, really? Really? Very
minimum wages, $0.25, $0.30 an hour. And we just
couldn't, though we'd made a special trip up here
six months before we enrolled or so, but we were not
able to obtain student employment our freshman
year. Did you eventually become employed? Yes, a
sophomore year. Both my brother and I were members
of the janitor force.
The hardest jobs on the janitor force were
sweeping dormitories, so we spent the first year
doing that.
And then my junior year, I was a janitor in the very
building we're sitting in right now. When I was
reassigned here a couple of years ago, I told them I
wasn't so awestruck I'd been assigned to this
building before.
I knew the building well. Then as a senior, I was a
janitor foreman of student janitors for this
building, Animal Industries Ag Building and
Pavilion.
I spent freshman year in Goodwin Hall and then the
sophomore year was spent
in Law Hall.
It still is functional dormitory. Then the last
two years I was in Miller Hall, which recently of
course had been remodeled and recommitted to
offices and classrooms.
My brother and I were afforded the opportunity to
come to college by a relative of my mother's
who was a school teacher in Beaumont and she came
from Smith County also and she was an unmarried
school teacher when oil was discovered in East
Texas in the early 30s and she obtained some wealth
from that and she loaned money to my brother and me
to come to college. We borrowed all of the money it
took that we didn't earn as student workers to come
to college. I was more thrifty than my brother, and
when we graduated, I owed Miss Leila Jarvis
$1,220, and he owed her a little over $1,400.
That's what it said. The total amount it took for us
to go to school for four years, other than what we
earned as student workers. Well, what kind of
social life did you have then? And we had a great
social life, to the extent you can with all men. And
of course on the ladies it was a very special
occasion.
There were dances on campus in relation to
football games and that sort of thing. The
strangest thing to me is there probably weren't
Two dozen automobiles owned by students on the
whole campus in most cases. These were secondhand
cars that several people had gone in together to
buy when they went to ROTC camp between their
junior and senior years. And of course
hitchhiking was all the thing in those days. We had
to travel by catch and ride, so usually my brother
and I would, if we had an opportunity to go home on
the weekend, we would hitchhike or maybe even ride
the bus to Houston for three or four dollars and
hitchhike from there to Orange.
So there was a great tradition about hitchhiking
around Texas A&M then. wearing your uniform.
Hitchhiking was mighty easy.
Texans had confidence in Texas Aggies. I'm sure
many of them would pick up people in the Texas Aggie
cadet uniform. Then hitchhiking wasn't against
regulations? Oh no, it wasn't.
and there were strong traditions associated with
it. Sometimes on a weekend you'd go out to the east
gate to the campus and you might be number 200 in
line. You wouldn't dare upstream anybody or go
further up to catch a ride. Strong conditions
anywhere you went. There was the Aggie
hitchhiking line. It'd be at a certain place and
you took your turn in that line. No kidding. Sure,
Houston or Beaumont or wherever there's a certain
place you went to get your ads and when you got there
you determined where you were in the land and you
didn't dare move up or upstream anybody and that
sort of thing. Well that was a fine thing. How
was the food in the dormitories during the
depression?
Well I would say that it was abundant
and better than most of us had at home. Of course
there weren't complaints about food but this was
family service and of course the freshmen were
required to wait on the upperclassmen and give
them first shot at everything but after the
upperclassmen left the mess hall as we called it
then The freshmen had all the food they wanted on
their own table or on tables around there. Of
course, it was one of the sacrifices that the
freshmen had to make is that they were not allowed
to eat desserts during their first year until
right at the end of the year. Of course, the
freshmen had nicknames for all the food. They
called it kush. You weren't allowed to. eat any pie
or dessert. The upperclassmen got all that they
wanted, food in their share and that of the
freshmen. So it was a great event right toward the
end of your freshman year when you were, you had
earned your spurs, so to speak, and were allowed to
eat kush.
I expect many freshmen did, but they had to do it
kind of surreptitiously. What were some of the
things that you liked about the Corps and some of
the things that you disliked about the Corps?
Well I liked very much the camaraderie
of the Corps, being one of the guys.
and passing the tests, whatever sacrifices you
were required to make. There were 32 of us in my
freshman class in my ROTC outfit.
It is macho to be one of the tougher ones. You could
take the hazing, you could take whatever
requirements there were without knuckling
under. So there's no question in my mind that that
molded character quite a bit.
Then the camaraderie of not only your classmates,
but of your military organization.
The F battery field artillery was something
special.
Anything you disliked about it? Anything that
bothered you about it at the time? I really adapted
real well to the military and corps life. I liked it
first grade. You know back in the 1930s American
foreign policy was isolationist basically.
While the Japanese and the Germans were very
aggressive We were sticking our head in the sand,
and one might say that we were almost
anti-militaristic in this country back in the
mid-1930s when you were here at A&M. We only had an
army of about 100,000 men. Did this mood ever
appear here at A&M? No, absolutely not. We had some
real outstanding ROTC instructors. It's amazing
to me how many of those who were captains,
majors, right after we got more involved and
started expanding the military forces rose right
on up to be general officers. We really had some
mighty outstanding active army people here as
ROTC instructors. Do you remember any that had an
influence on your life and what was that
influence? Oh sure. Who were these people? Well
there was a Colonel O.E. Beasley who was chief of
the artillery branch of ROTC and Captain Lloyd
Garrison,
a dapper bachelor type. There
were a couple of other artillery instructors.
Right now I'm having a little bit of trouble
remembering their names, but all of these were
outstanding active army type people. They were
demanding, but fair people. I don't know. I'd say
they had tremendous influence on my young life. I
thought I'd really gotten somewhere when I got to
be a senior. Colonel Beasley, who was quite a
horseman himself, selected me to help him in
teaching equitation. Of course, battery field
artillery was a horse-drawn outfit. Of course, we
had cavalry horses and artillery horses on
campus. just west of the railroad, we had stables
there. Of course I'd had quite a bit of previous
experience with horses at home.
So I thought it was something mighty special that
Colonel Beasley would come by Milner Hall and pick
me up and take me down and I could help him teach
equitation to sophomore students in ROTC.
It appears that you admired this man. Oh yes, I did.
Garrison Lieutenant Benny P. Heiser, I remember.
How would you spell that? He was a H-E-I-S-E-R.
He was a great big sort of heavy set man.
He was a little bit of a clown. Of course a West Point
graduate. I remember his telling us in ROTC
classes that when he was in the 12th Field
Artillery of the 2nd Infantry Division of San
Antonio, Dizzy Dean was a soldier. He was a catcher
on the baseball team and Dizzy Dean was a pitcher.
So he used to catch Dizzy Dean. And of course he was
the first lieutenant and by then he'd probably
been in the Army 10 or 12 years. Lloyd Garrison was a
captain, and he'd probably been in the army 20
years. And Colonel Beasley was a lieutenant
colonel, and he'd probably been in the army 25
years, so they sure didn't have very much rank.
Vinny Heiser used to say to his ROTC classes as
well, Everybody on campus ranks me except
Lieutenant Moses and he's adjutant, he tells me
what to do also.
What did these men teach you besides military life
or artillery, your profession?
Well, I think they were demanding people and when
we went out to drill,
whatever,
they set high standards and demanded compliance.
No question that they had tremendous influence on
my life, on the standards that I'd set. I'd do
whatever I could to find favor with these people
because I admired them a lot. But they were
certainly an inspiration. And if you had to answer
the question, in what ways do you think that the
Corps helped or hindered your career, that would
be part of it. Oh, certainly.
There's no question that I had very fine
experiences,
received some recognition and inspiration from
what I did in the Corps of Cadets at Texas A&M.
You were a regimental commander in 1938, 1939.
How'd you get that job, and can you explain your
functions and duties?
Well, I guess Through academic record and through
accomplishments in ROTC, I was selected for the
position of regimental commander.
What accomplishments in ROTC? Well, the grades
you made in military science. and performance at
the ROTC camp between your junior and senior year
selection weren't made until after that. There
was a rotation of leadership in ROTC camp
observation. The same instructors were there at
ROTC camp. Texas Aggies were thrown in with cadets
from other institutions too. So there was an
opportunity to express
leadership capabilities in the rotational
duties in ROTC camp. What duties did you have as a
commander? Well as commander of the artillery
regiment, which was composed of three
battalions, two that lived on campus And a day
student battalion, I believe it amounted to some
3,000 cadets, I think, you know, the artillery
raid cadets. Really? You were in charge of 3,000
cadets? Was a good deal larger than, I think it was
about 2,000 cadets. Yeah, 2,000 cadets. So
anyway... The military outfits, the ROTC
companies and batteries were much larger than the
ones today because ROTC was compulsory.
Everybody had to take at least two years and even if
students were not enrolled in advanced ROTC, they
still lived in the military outfits, wore the
uniform, marched to meals.
their student life was all in ROTC units. So there
were some 2,000 cadets in there, and our duties
during regular student living were to establish
contact with the staff, with the company, with the
battery commanders and artillery.
to command the unit during the two-hour drill
periods each week. In most cases, the activities
were by batteries or platoons. But in some cases,
at ceremonies, for instance, reviews or
whatever, we functioned as an entire regiment.
And of course, every meal, the unit formed up and
marched the meals. The staff fell in with the
regimental commander. There was a battalion
staff for each battalion, marched the meals every
three times a day, except on weekends since we
didn't do it then. Why were you picked as the
regimental commander? Well I don't know
entirely.
At this time and every other time that I've gotten a
promotion in my life I could always see there were a
lot of people that appeared to be equally
qualified and so you know I just don't know. the
officers to select me over a bunch of apparently
equally qualified people.
But I was mighty proud to be selected. I bet you
were. That's a great position for a man, what 20
years old were you at that time? Yes, I was 20. 20
years old and you were in charge of basically 2,000
cadets? Well, to the extent that a cadet officer
was in charge. At that time, I would have to say that
the students have a lot more authority and
responsibility today than we did then. The ROTC
instructors were much more closely associated
with us and we didn't expect to be given as much
responsibility as young people expect today. So I
wouldn't say that we were making any great
decisions about things.
What are your feelings on the fact that students
have more responsibilities today or demand more
responsibilities? Do you think that's positive
or negative? I think it's very positive. There's
no question in my mind that the young people that
come to Texas A&M today are far more qualified than
I was in my day. They're far better educated on
arrival. They're far more competent. They expect
and discharge responsibility better than we did.
And I'm mighty proud of the developments in
student government and the responsibilities
that students have.
Now, what were your feelings? I want to talk about
the ROTC camp. Tell me about the ROTC camp, and tell
me about the other
corpsmen from other colleges. Let's take time out
for a minute. Okay, time out.